The Project Gutenberg eBook of Uncle Wiggily on roller skates, by
Howard R. Garis

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Uncle Wiggily on roller skates
       Or What happened when the skillery skallery alligator gave chase
       and Uncle Wiggily is snowballed by the fox and wolf also Uncle
       Wiggily plays a joke on the wolf

Author: Howard R. Garis

Illustrator: Lang Campbell

Release Date: February 11, 2023 [eBook #70017]

Language: English

Produced by: David Edwards, PrimeNumber and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
             produced from images generously made available by The
             Internet Archive)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK UNCLE WIGGILY ON ROLLER
SKATES ***


[Illustration: This little book is from the library of

--------

--------

--------

  When you have read, and laughed with glee
  Please bring this book right back to me.
]




  UNCLE WIGGILY ON ROLLER SKATES
  or
  WHAT HAPPENED WHEN THE SKILLERY SKALLERY ALLIGATOR
  GAVE CHASE
  and
  UNCLE WIGGILY IS SNOWBALLED BY THE FOX AND WOLF
  also
  UNCLE WIGGILY PLAYS A JOKE ON THE WOLF

  [Illustration]

  TEXT BY
  HOWARD R. GARIS
  Author of THREE LITTLE TRIPPERTROTS and BED TIME STORIES

  PICTURED BY
  LANG CAMPBELL


  NEWARK, N. J.
  CHARLES E. GRAHAM & CO.
  NEW YORK


IF YOU LIKE THIS FUNNY LITTLE PICTURE BOOK ABOUT THE BUNNY RABBIT
GENTLEMAN YOU MAY BE GLAD TO KNOW THERE ARE OTHERS.


So if the spoon holder doesn’t go down cellar and take the coal shovel
away from the gas stove, you may read

   1 UNCLE WIGGILY’S AUTO SLED.
   2 UNCLE WIGGILY’S SNOW MAN.
   3 UNCLE WIGGILY’S HOLIDAYS.
   4 UNCLE WIGGILY’S APPLE ROAST.
   5 UNCLE WIGGILY’S PICNIC.
   6 UNCLE WIGGILY’S FISHING TRIP.
   7 UNCLE WIGGILY’S JUNE BUG FRIENDS.
   8 UNCLE WIGGILY’S VISIT TO THE FARM.
   9 UNCLE WIGGILY’S SILK HAT.
  10 UNCLE WIGGILY, INDIAN HUNTER.
  11 UNCLE WIGGILY’S ICE CREAM PARTY.
  12 UNCLE WIGGILY’S WOODLAND GAMES.
  13 UNCLE WIGGILY ON THE FLYING RUG.
  14 UNCLE WIGGILY AT THE BEACH.
  15 UNCLE WIGGILY AND THE PIRATES.
  16 UNCLE WIGGILY’S FUNNY AUTO.
  17 UNCLE WIGGILY ON ROLLER SKATES.
  18 UNCLE WIGGILY GOES SWIMMING.

Every book has three stories, including the title story.

[Illustration: _Uncle Wiggily_

HIS MARK]

_Made in U. S. A._


  Copyright 1919 McClure Newspaper Syndicate. Trade mark registered.
  Copyright 1920, 1922, 1924 Charles E. Graham & Co., Newark, N. J.,
  and New York.


[Illustration]

1. Once upon a time Uncle Wiggily met Baby Bunty on her skates. “Oh,
Uncle Wiggily!” laughed the little rabbit girl, “why don’t you get a
pair and come roller skating with me?” The bunny sort of twinkled his
pink nose doubtful like. “Do you think an old rabbit like me could
skate?” he asked. “Of course you could! I’ll teach you if you’ve
forgotten!” kindly offered Baby Bunty. “All right,” said Mr. Longears.

[Illustration]

2. Uncle Wiggily, in his heart, felt that something dreadful would
happen. But he did not like to disappoint Baby Bunty, so he bought
himself a pair of roller skates and began. “This is how you do it!”
called back the cute little rabbit girl, as she started boldly off, for
she was a good skater. “Ye-ye-yes, my de-de-dear! I--I see how you do
it,” stammered Uncle Wiggily. “But it isn’t so-so-so easy!”

[Illustration]

3. All went well for a while, though Uncle Wiggily, of course, could
not skate as fast as Baby Bunty. All of a sudden one of the bunny’s
paws shot out from under him. “Oh, Baby Bunty! Look!” he cried. “Uncle
Wiggily! Stop that!” scolded Bunty. “You shouldn’t try any fancy tricks
before you learn to skate straight!” Mr. Longears twinkled his nose.
“Trick!” he cried. “I couldn’t help doing this!”

[Illustration]

4. After some hard work Uncle Wiggily managed to get his elevated leg
back on the ground where it belonged, and he started off once more. But
he tried to go too fast and, all of a sudden he turned a peppersault in
the air. “Oh, Uncle Wiggily! Why do you keep on doing those tricks?”
cried Baby Bunty. “I--I’m not doing them on purpose!” said the poor
bunny. “They just--just--seem to happen!”

[Illustration]

5. Well, after a while, Uncle Wiggily landed right side up with care,
and he and Baby Bunty skated off once more. But, all of a sudden, they
reached the top of a hill, and, before he knew what was going on, Uncle
Wiggily started to glide down. “Oh! Oh!” he cried. “Look out!” shouted
Baby Bunty. “See the puddle!” “I see it!” shouted Uncle Wiggily, “and I
don’t like the looks of it, either! Wow!”

[Illustration]

6. Nearer and nearer rolled the bunny gentleman to the puddle. Just
as he seemed about to plop in, he gave a great jump, as Jack did over
the candle stick, and right across sailed Uncle Wiggily. “Good! Good!”
cried Baby Bunty, who caught hold of a tree to save herself from
skating into the water. “That was good, Uncle Wiggily!” “It was not so
bad for an old chap!” chuckled the bunny gentleman.

[Illustration]

7. Down came Uncle Wiggily, “ker-plunk!” on the far side of the mud
puddle. He thought everything was going to be fine, and that now he
could skate with Baby Bunty. But, all of a sudden, his legs began to
spread apart, farther and farther. “Oh! Oh! Oh!!” he cried. Baby Bunty,
who had skated around the puddle, came hurrying up. “Oh, what is the
matter now?” asked Baby Bunty. It was dreadful!

[Illustration]

8. “Wait a minute! I’ll help you, Uncle Wiggily!” called Baby Bunty.
She began to push on one of the spread-apart legs of the bunny. “You
pull on your other leg, Uncle Wiggily,” advised Baby Bunty. The rabbit
tried, but it was no use. “Oh, if we only had some one to help!” he
sighed. “I’ll help you!” offered a voice. “Who was that?” asked Baby
Bunty. “Oh, the Alligator!” cried Uncle Wiggily.

[Illustration]

9. All of a sudden, as soon as he knew the Alligator was there, Uncle
Wiggily’s legs seemed to pull together. “I’m all right now, Bunty!”
he cried. “Come on, I’ll skate as I haven’t skated since I was a boy
rabbit!” And Mr. Longears did just that. He and Baby Bunty glided so
fast that, run as he did, the Skillery Scallery Alligator could not get
them. “Ha! Ha!” laughed the bunny, “who says I can’t skate!”

  And if the gold fish doesn’t try to flip out of its bowl and go to
  sleep in the canary bird’s cage, the next pictures
  and story will tell how

[Illustration]

  THE FOX AND WOLF, BOTH BAD CHAPS THEY, TRIED
  HARD UNCLE WIGGILY TO CATCH ONE DAY. BUT SNOW BALLS
  AT THEM FLEW SO FAST, THEY BOTH DID RUN AWAY AT LAST.

[Illustration]

1. Once upon a time Uncle Wiggily was out walking wearing his tall
silk hat, for he had been to a reception given by Mrs. Twistytail, the
pig lady. Then, all of a sudden, when Uncle Wiggily was nearly at his
hollow stump bungalow, the Fox threw a snowball, knocking off the hat.
“Ha! Ha!” laughed the Wolf. “That’s funny!” Uncle Wiggily could see
nothing very funny about it. “Guess I’ll run,” he said.

[Illustration]

2. Uncle Wiggily guessed what sort of a trick the Fox and Wolf were
trying to play on him. “They thought I’d stop and pick up my hat,” said
the bunny to himself, “and then they could catch me and nibble my ears.
But I’d rather lose my hat than my ears!” So away he ran without his
hat. Out jumped the Fox and Wolf. One of them picked up the hat and
chased after Uncle Wiggily with it, crying: “Wait!”

[Illustration]

3. Uncle Wiggily ran so fast without his hat that soon he left the Fox
and Wolf behind. “Well, our trick didn’t work,” said the Fox. “No,”
agreed the Wolf, “but I know another trick we can play.” The Fox wanted
to know what it was. “We’ll do this,” growled the Wolf. “We’ll sneak up
and leave Uncle Wiggily’s hat near his bungalow. Then we’ll hide, and
when he comes out to get it, we’ll grab him!”

[Illustration]

4. Uncle Wiggily ran on as fast as he could, without his hat, until he
reached his hollow stump bungalow. Near it he saw some of the animal
boys having a snowball fight. “Oh, this gives me an idea for playing a
trick on the Fox and Wolf,” said the bunny. Just then up rushed Floppy
Twistytail, the piggie boy. He had heard what the Fox and Wolf said
about coming to the bungalow and Floppy told all.

[Illustration]

5. “You say the Fox and Wolf are coming to put my hat on the ground
near my bungalow, and will grab me when I go to get it; is that it,
Floppy?” asked the bunny. “That’s it,” said the piggie boy. “Ah, now
for a snowball fight!” cried Uncle Wiggily to the animal boys. “Make
all the hard balls you can,” he told them. “Hide around the corner of
my bungalow, and we’ll wait for the Fox and Wolf to come.”

[Illustration]

6. Along came the Fox and Wolf, not knowing what was going to happen to
them. Around the corner of the bungalow Uncle Wiggily and the animal
boys watched. “We’ll leave the hat on the snow,” said the Fox to the
Wolf. “I guess Uncle Wiggily is in there now. Then we’ll hide behind
the stump and wait for him to come out to get his hat.” The Wolf said
that would be a good plan, so that’s what they did.

[Illustration]

7. “Now, boys, be on the watch!” whispered Uncle Wiggily to the animal
chaps with their hard snowballs. “I’m going out now to get my hat. When
the Fox and Wolf rush at me--well, you know what to do!” The animal
boys chuckled with glee. “Yes, we know what to do, all right, Uncle
Wiggily!” His pink nose twinkling at what was going to happen, Uncle
Wiggily stepped bravely toward his hat.

[Illustration]

8. All of a sudden, just as Uncle Wiggily reached down and picked up
his hat--all of a sudden, out rushed the Fox and Wolf from behind
the stump. “Now we’ll get him!” howled the Wolf. “Let them have the
snowballs, fellows!” cried the piggie boy. And they threw the hard
chunks of snow and ice in the faces of the Fox and Wolf. “Oh wow! What
is this?” barked the Fox as he felt a snowball hit him on his ear.

[Illustration]

9. “Give it to them, boys! Give it to them!” cried Uncle Wiggily. The
bunny rabbit put his hat down over his ears so it wouldn’t fall off
and then he, too, joined in the snowball fight. “I thought you said we
could easily get Uncle Wiggily!” howled the Wolf to the Fox. “Well, I
thought we could!” cried the Fox. “Oh, wow, but what a mistake we made.
Never again will I throw at Uncle Wiggily’s hat!”

  And if the hammer doesn’t try to play croquet with a snowball and
  catch cold in its head, the next pictures
  and story will tell how

[Illustration]

  UNCLE WIGGILY TOOK THE SCARECROW,
  JUST TO PLAY A LITTLE TRICK. THE BAD OLD
  WOLF WAS BLOWN UP, LIKE A LONG SKYROCKET STICK. HA! HA!

[Illustration]

1. One day, when Uncle Wiggily was hopping around, looking for an
adventure, he reached a cornfield where, all summer, had stood an old
Scarecrow. “Hum!” said the bunny to himself, as he saw the old stuffed,
ragged man. “The farmer has no further use for this Scarecrow. His corn
is cut and the crows have flown south. I’ll take the Scarecrow home and
play a little trick on Nurse Jane with it. Ha! Ha!”

[Illustration]

2. Uncle Wiggily laughed to himself as he thought of the trick he would
play on Nurse Jane with the Scarecrow. “I guess I’ll put it away and
save it for Hallowe’en and play the trick then,” said the bunny to
himself. He became tired of hauling the stuffed and ragged man, and
stood the Scarecrow up near a log, while he sat down on the other side
of the log. Then the Fuzzy Fox saw the Scarecrow and wanted it.

[Illustration]

3. All of a sudden, as Uncle Wiggily was thinking of hopping on again,
up ran the Fox. “Ho! Ho!” barked the Fox, as he saw the Scarecrow,
“these old clothes are just what I want for the winter!” Then the Fox
started to run away with Uncle Wiggily’s Scarecrow that the bunny
wanted for Hallowe’en. “Here! Come back!” cried the bunny, jumping up
on the log. But the Old Fox only ran the faster.

[Illustration]

4. “Well, if the Fox took one Scarecrow away from me I must find
another,” said Uncle Wiggily, with a twinkle of his pink nose. He
hopped along a little farther, and in a fence corner he saw a second
ragged and stuffed man. “He has a tall silk hat on--like I wear!” said
the bunny. “Some might take him for me. And what’s this--powder and
matches! A hunter must have left them here. Now for a trick!”

[Illustration]

5. “I’ll play a joke on the Fox or Wolf if they try to take this
Scarecrow away from me,” said Uncle Wiggily with a laugh. Then the
bunny poured some powder from the hunter’s flask inside the second
Scarecrow. “I’ll put in a Fourth of July fuse, such as firecrackers
have,” said Uncle Wiggily. “I’ll hide and watch, and when the Fox or
Wolf runs away with this Scarecrow--Zoopie! What will happen?”

[Illustration]

6. After Uncle Wiggily had put powder inside the Scarecrow, making the
stuffed man into a sort of torpedo bomb, the bunny carried the image
near a big rock. “I’ll lie down around the corner of the rock and make
believe I’m asleep,” thought the rabbit. “But I’ll have one eye open
and as soon as any bad animal takes my Scarecrow I’ll strike a match,
light the powder fuse and then--Whoop! Up they’ll go!”

[Illustration]

7. From afar the Woozie Wolf had seen Uncle Wiggily’s second Scarecrow,
but the Wolf didn’t know about the powder. “Oh ho!” snickered the Wolf,
creeping closer to the Scarecrow, “the Fuzzy Fox thought he was smart,
taking away a Scarecrow to get the old clothes to keep him warm this
winter. Well, he isn’t the only one! I’ll carry this stuffed man off to
my den and take his clothes for myself!”

[Illustration]

8. All of a sudden, almost before Uncle Wiggily knew what was
happening, the Wolf made a jump and grabbed the Scarecrow. “You’re
mine!” he howled. But the bunny gentleman quickly struck a match and
lighted the powder fuse. It began to smoke and sizzle. Away ran the
Wolf with the Scarecrow! “Oh ho!” laughed Uncle Wiggily, “He won’t run
so fast in a few minutes! Oh, listen for the noise!”

[Illustration]

9. All of a sudden there was a loud banging noise. “There it goes!”
cried the bunny gentleman. “There goes the powder!” And the Scarecrow
the Wolf was carrying away was blown up. Uncle Wiggily was far enough
off not to be hurt. But that Wolf--“Oh, Skuzzie-zuzzie!” he howled, as
he felt himself coming down like a skyrocket stick, after having sailed
up, “Oh, zoopie! Lightning must have struck me!”

[Illustration:

  When you have finished reading this nice little book, perhaps you
  would like to read a larger volume about Uncle Wiggily.

  If so, go to the book store and ask the Man for one of the Uncle
  Wiggily Bedtime Story Books, they have a lot of Funny Pictures in and
  31 stories--one for every night in the month. If the book store man
  has none of these volumes ask him to get you one or send direct to
  the Publishers,

        A. L. BURT COMPANY,
        114 EAST 23rd STREET
        NEW YORK CITY
]

[Illustration: LOOK HERE!

  This handsome book has large color pictures throughout and wonderful
  stories. Ask the book store man for _Adventures of Uncle
  Wiggily_.


        CHARLES E. GRAHAM & CO.
        NEWARK, N. J.
]




  TRANSCRIBER’S NOTE:

  1. Original spellings were standardised only when a dominant version
     was found.
  2. Enclosed italics font in _underscores_.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK UNCLE WIGGILY ON ROLLER
SKATES ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
